# Project 1

This Project includes 4 Folders
- data:     Here can the imported data be found
- figures:  Figures used in report and found using the included python files
- latex:    Report Pdf, .tex and project description 
- src:      All python code used in this project 

Following packages need to be installed before running the code:
- pip3 install matplotlib
- pip3 install numpy 
- pip3 install sklearn
- pip3 install imageio

The code is structured with pythonfiles with names b.py, c.py... corresponding to the tasks described in "Project_description.pdf" found in the latex folder. There is also a main functions.py which contains general functions used in most of the other files. 

To reproduce the results run the python files with
- python3 filename.py  

For running g.py the data file located in the data folder needs to be downloaded. The rest should work if all the python files are located in the same folder. To reproduce some results from the report, some changes of parameters in the python files may be needed. To use right parameters change the parameters in the code to match with the parameters used in the plot. There are also descriptions for every function on how they work, what they produce and what arguments they take in. 

# Abstract
Central methods in machine learning include regression analysis and resampling methods, which lately have made a great impact on our understanding of the world around us. To gain a fundamental understanding of how these meth-
ods work, we will do regression analysis using ordinary least squares, Ridge and Lasso regression together with the resampling methods Bootstrap and Cross validation. By using data generated by the Franke function and real topography data we have gained an insight in how these methods perform in different circumstances and we have ended up showing that the Ridge method generally gives us the most accurate results. Furthermore we have looked into the performance of the Lasso method, and found that there are certain important steps in the implementation of, together with computational limits in how well this method performs.
